June 2025 program management update (#1668)
rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org: content/inside-rust/program-management-update-2025-07.md

Quick summary:

* We've settled on using TAP-16 Merkle Tree implementation of [TUF (The Update Framework)][tuf] for crates.io.
* We've settled on maintaining a top-level quorum but removing immediate levels for simplicity.
* We've reached a consensus with the Infrastructure team for deployment planning.
* A public MVP implementation is coming Soon™ (by the end of August).
* We will test various optimizations to settle on something that works for our tooling (Rustup, releases, crates.io, update, signing etc.).
* Role keys will live in KMS (Key Management Service).

Open Questions and Next Steps:

* Which specific optimizations will fit our needs.
* How to implement the Merkle tree to reduce round-trips.
* Stand up infrastructure to host this.

For more details, read this [goal update for more details](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-project-goals/issues/271#issuecomment-3133590786) and/or reach out to @walterhpearce.

One of the things on my radar is to start publishing more frequent and detailed updates. I've joined the signing meetings to be more aware of what's happening.

[tuf]: https://theupdateframework.io/

## Rust for Linux

> [Rust for Linux][rfl] is an ongoing effort (started in 2020) to add support for Rust to the Linux kernel. This will let you write kernel drivers in a memory safe language, with hopefully fewer bugs and nicer tooling. And empower people outside of the traditional low-level C background to write kernel code.

Reviewer: I suggested the rewording above because it already allows people to do that (e.g. we already have drivers in-tree) and because it is not only for drivers. In addition, since you talked about rationale/goals, I linked to the original RFC and reused a sentence out of it.

[rfl]: https://rust-for-linux.com/

> The project currently has to rely on unsafe Rust. This makes it less appealing for companies and individuals as unstable features can by definition change or even be removed. We want there to be minimal (ideally zero) churn on Rust code that's been accepted to the kernel.

Author: LOL, that's an embarrassing typo.

There's been an ongoing collaboration with the Rust Project to get the language, compiler and tooling to a point where it can be completely compiled on stable Rust.

[This was one of the Flagship goals in the first half of 2025][rflh1].

[rflh1]: https://rust-lang.github.io/rust-project-goals/2025h1/rfl.html

> This effort requires close collaboration with the Lang and Compiler teams and someone who can bridge the gap between the two projects. Until now, that was done by Niko Matsakis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This effort requires close collaboration with the Lang and Compiler teams, among others, and contact points on both sides to bridge the gap between the two projects. Until now, that was done by Niko Matsakis et al. on the Rust side and Miguel Ojeda et al. on the Rust for Linux side.
```
